Extended documentation for upgrading from CI3 to CI4 (#4338)
codeigniter4/CodeIgniter4: user_guide_src/source/installation/upgrade_controllers.rst

Upgrade Controllers

> ###############################################################################

Reviewer: Remove from this file the over-extended lines.

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1

Documentations
============================================================

- `Controller Documentation Codeigniter 3.X <http://codeigniter.com/userguide3/general/controllers.html>`_

> - `Controller Documentation Codeigniter 4.X <http://codeigniter.com/user_guide/incoming/controllers.html>`_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `Controller Documentation Codeigniter 4.X </incoming/controllers.html>`_
```

What has been changed
============================================================

> - Since Namespaces has been added in CodeIgniter 4, the controllers must be changed to support namespaces
> - Controllers don’t use a constructor any more (to invoke CI “magic”) unless that is part of a base controller you make
> - CI provides Request and Response objects for you to work with - more powerful than the CI3-way
> - If you want a base controller (MY_Controller in CI3), make it where you like, e.g. BaseController extends Controller, and then have your controllers extend it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Since namespaces have been added to CodeIgniter 4, the controllers must be changed to support namespaces.
- Controllers don’t use constructors any more (to invoke CI “magic”) unless those are part of base controllers you make.
- CI provides Request and Response objects for you to work with - more powerful than the CI3-way.
- If you want a base controller (``MY_Controller`` in CI3), make it where you like, e.g., BaseController extends Controller, and then have your controllers extend it
```

Upgrade Guide
============================================================

> 1. First, move all controller files to the folder ``app/Controllers``
> 2. Add this line just after the opening php tag: ``namespace App\Controllers;``
> 3. Replace ``extends CI_Controller`` with ``extends BaseController``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First, move all controller files to the folder ``app/Controllers``.
2. Add this line just after the opening php tag: ``namespace App\Controllers;``
3. Replace ``extends CI_Controller`` with ``extends BaseController``.
```

> If you use sub-directories in your controller structure you have to change the namespace according to that.
> Example: You have a version 3 controller located in ``application/controllers/users/auth/Register.php`` the namespace has to be ``namespace App\Controllers\Users\Auth;`` and the controller path in the version 4 should look like this: ``app/Controllers/Users/Auth/Register.php``
> After that you have to insert a "use" statement below the namespace definition in order to extend the "BaseController" ``use App\Controllers\BaseController;``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use sub-directories in your controller structure, you have to change the namespace according to that.
For example, you have a version 3 controller located in ``application/controllers/users/auth/Register.php``, the namespace has to be ``namespace App\Controllers\Users\Auth;`` and the controller path in the version 4 should look like this: ``app/Controllers/Users/Auth/Register.php``. Make sure to have the first letters of the sub-directories as capitalized.
After that you have to insert a "use" statement below the namespace definition in order to extend the "BaseController": ``use App\Controllers\BaseController;``
```

Code Example
============================================================

Codeigniter Version 3.11
-------------------------------------------------------
Path: ``application/controllers``::

>     <?php
>     class Helloworld extends CI_Controller {
> 
>         public function index($name) {
>             echo "Hello $name! ";
>         }
> 
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <?php
    
    class Helloworld extends CI_Controller
    {
        public function index($name)
        {
            echo "Hello $name! ";
        }
    }
```

Codeigniter Version 4.x
-------------------------------------------------------
Path: ``app/Controllers``::

    <?php

    namespace App\Controllers;

    class Helloworld extends BaseController {

        public function index($name) {

>             echo "Hello $name! ";

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            echo 'Hello ' . esc($name) . '!';
```

>     class Helloworld extends BaseController {
> 
>         public function index($name) {
>             echo "Hello $name! ";
>         }
> 
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    class Helloworld extends BaseController
    {
        public function index($name)
        {
            echo "Hello $name! ";
        }
    }
```
